

How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?
When writing programs that are maintainable, readable, and adptable, using best practices, including proper comments and reusable code are two things that are important. By including comments that accurately describe the code, you and others will be able to better understand what sections of the code are meant to do. This will help the code be more maintainable so that changes can be made as needed. Using best practices also helps with this aspect along with the readablility of your code. To make the code more adaptable, modularizing and creating reusable code is beneficial. During this project, one way I implemented these practices was by creating code that can be easily modified to connect the dashboard widgets to the database. This code can be modified and reused to connect to other databases as the logic would be the same.

How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?
When approaching any problem, it is important to collect enough information to come up with a solution. For this project, however, I found it difficult at first to come up with a proper solution prior to completing the work for each week as I was unable to accurately imagine the different steps required to connect the dashboard to the database. A technique I used to determine what should be done was to figure out the requirements the project had and, for each one, come up with a general plan of action that might make it work while still being able to be modified later on. For example, one of the requirements was that it should be possible to look up an animal using querying. At first, my plan was to take a key and value variable and use those to search for the animal. It became clear when working on project two that this would not be possible with the new requirement of being able to search for a list of animals that met specific requirments as this would require multiple keys and values. At this point, I had two options: Add to the code to provide more options, or rework the code I'd started with so that it is easier to understand and still got the job done. I went with the second option and, even though it took more time to retest and ensure things were working properly, the code became a lot simpler and met the requirements. Making general plans rather than ones set in stone is a strategy that I will likely use in the future so that any changes that need to be made can be without too much complication.

What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?
When someone has an idea, that idea cannot be brought to life without someone with the knowledge about how exactly to do it. This is where computer scientists come into play in their field, by using their knowledge and critical thinking skills to figure out just how to get an idea off paper and get it up and running. My work on this type of project can help a company do their work better by giving me the skills to take their ideas and figure out how to make it work.
